---
layout: post
title:  "OSGeo PSC - September meeting 2018"
excerpt : "New roadmap items were approved, new OIP"
date:   2018-09-11 15:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# September meeting 2018

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- New roadmap items
- Oskari Developer Summit 25.9.2018
- Discussion channels
- News from PSC members

## Opening the meeting at 15:10

Present via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Jaakko Ruutiainen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Heikki Ylitalo
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:
- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Timo Sallinen

## New roadmap items

Following roadmap items have been provided for the PSC before hand in PSC-channel in Rocketchat a few weeks back. They have already received up-votes in GitHub.

Update Jetty version: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/67

Initial vector tile support: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/68
- was regarded as a good feature

Timeseries support: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/69 
- this should be opened a little bit more in Github, otherwise good to go

Frontend stack modernization: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/70 
- Marko: nice features
- Sanna: more broad description please in the future so that all can understand what is happening. 
- Sami: we want to get rid of the old build script. OpenLayers has moved to new Webpack also. 
- All in all, this was considered as a good improvment.

All roadmap items above were approved.

## OIP

Layer permissions handling change https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/72 
- this has caused problems before, the improvement makes permissions more clear for layers. 
- this was regarded as good OIP
- everybody can comment on the OIP or vote for it in GitHub after the meeting. 
- if it gets up-voted, it is going to be added as a roadmap item soon.
 
## Reminder: Oskari developer summit coming up

Please sign in: https://www.meetup.com/Oskari-Your-geospatial-friend/events/251877038/. 
The event will be held in Helsinki on 25.9.2018 and Oskari roadmap for the future is drafted there.

## Discussion channels

There has not been activity on Slack - any reason for this? 

- Rocketchat has been taken in use in NLS-FI sine June 2018 for projects and at the same time Slack activity has gone down.
- Slack still needs registration and there could be only the “general” channel in use, but it still needs creating automation for registration
- Sami and Sanna have been testing also Githubs own chat Gitter https://gitter.im/oskariorg/chat. The pros of this media is that all the discussions are visible thourgh search engines. It is in use also e.g. GeoNode and is totally open.

It was decided to vote what instant messaging channel should be used:

- Heikki: Slack better technically, no strong opinion on this
- Jussi: One public channel would be best, preferably email since it’s easiest to follow intermittently 
- Marko Kuosmanen: no strong opinion
- Marko Kauppi:  no strong opinion
- Jaakko: no strong opinion, we should only use one
- Hafliði: I won’t miss Slack, not used it much anyhow
- Tuuli: no strong opinion on this, Slack is ok, but problem is if messages are disappearing
- Samis vote will decide: Let's start using Gitter on the side, but prefer to use the mailing list as the main discussion channel. This way we can avoid loosing messages

## Other issues

Marko Kauppi has started to work at Ubigu Ltd full time, transition period with city of Tampere still on the way regarding Oskari maintenance

NLS-IS: There has been lot of changes in metadata (GeoNetwork), new applications coming up, but not much Oskari related stuff happening this year

NLS-FI: new release coming just around the corner, maybe next week. Vector tile support will be in the job list after that. 

Helsinki: Jussi said that City of Helsinki has now been consentrating on metadata issues and they will now be automatically updated to national metadataservice, after that maybe some Oskari handling. Discussed a little bit about Ckan-Oskari compatibility and that there is a need for test how Oskari can handle interfaces from Ckan. Sanna will continue chatting with this issue with Jussi via email-list. This is something that interesets those who have dataportal and Oskari instance, like Lounaistieto.fi for instance. 

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 9.10.2018, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 15:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 15:56
