---
layout: post
title:  "OSGeo PSC - December meeting 2018"
excerpt : "News, new release"
date:   2018-12-11 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# December meeting 2018

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members

## Opening the meeting at 13:07

Via conference call:
- Sami Mäkinen
- Jaakko Ruutiainen
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:
- Marko Kauppi
- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

Download basket: updates & requests for downloading under research

Turku University of Applied Science students have made usability research on Oskari (Suomi.fi maps, Paikkatietoikkuna / Statistics Finland needs and Oskari.org documentation). Documentation from the projects have been sent to the responsible parties, Sanna can do a summary of them in English. 

Discussion about when to take new Oskari version in use and instructions for updating community bundles. LTR-thinking needs funding - who is responsible? New release is updated always in Paikkatietoikkuna, Elf & ArcticSDI, but e.g. Tampere has still a year old version. Documentation / instructions: newest release is always the best (Sanna willl add this to the community-pages) 

Oskari website & documentation development plan https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/82

Liiteri ESRI Rest support development ⇒ GitHub (Kuosmanen asks Olli) 

## New roadmap items 

Not at this moment

## News from the members

New Oskari release available 1.49, 1.50 is being released probably this week (library updates & Jetty). 1.51 milestones are available in GitHub. 
- Some problems with Thematic Maps legend, probably one hot fix coming up soon
- Jetty 9 is being updated in NLS-FI, also Kuosmanen has tested (works nice). 

5000€ for website development is being allocated in the next year  by JDF (Joint Development Forum)

Statistics Finland Oskari instance is being updated to newest version soon

Suomi.fi maps roadmap is under way 

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 8.1.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:32
