---
layout: post
title:  "Plans for 2019 - January meeting 2019"
excerpt : "Updates going on, Oskari doccer, metadata integration, process for receiving new issues from GitHub, vector tiles, complex WFS, "
date:   2019-01-08 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# January meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- Highlight of 2018
- Oskari tasks for 2019

## Opening the meeting at 13:05

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Jaakko Ruutiainen
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Marko Kauppi
- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon

- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present: X

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

New Oskari 1.49 and 1.50 were released in December. Sami will inform Oskari mailing list about the 1.50.

Jetty 9 installation going on at the moment in different setups in NLS-FI.

Website development has received 5000€ funding from JDF. It was discussed that the possible different solutions should be checked (readthedocs, mkdocs, WordPress/GitHub integration like https://www.dreamhost.com/blog/using-git-wordpress/). E.g. GeoNode uses documentation from GitHub: http://docs.geonode.org/en/latest/index.html   

Statistics Finland Oskari instance is being updated to 1.49 version, update of the user guide coming up soon.

Suomi.fi maps roadmap is under way but no concrete issues yet available.


## News from the members

Hafliði: Oskari upgrading should be done for the NLS-IS in the spring. People are interested in the statistics part and there is a pressure to have this up and running.

Jaakko: No Oskari related news.

Jussi: Oskari doccer chek-ups have been done and installation instruction have been checked. It was discussed that Jetty has changed the intallation a bit but the documentation has been updated. Jussi promised to test this. Also INSPIRE metadata inspection with Helsinki metadata has been inspected. Jussi will show something on this in the future. Geonode uses http://pycsw.org for metadata to convert own metadata to OGC metadata, CKAN etc.

Marko Kauppi: Oskari migration is being done for City of Tampere at the moment, current authentication SAML environment.

Marko Kuosmanen: Liikennevirasto jetty 9 upgrade on going. NBA Oskari 1.49 update, Liiteri 1.49 upgrade coming with hierarchical layerlist.

Timo: At the moment updating installation scripts and pipelines for Suomi.fi maps. Suomi.fi maps roadmap is being updated and the list is quite long. Planning to have input round from customers. Most issues are already in Oskari roadmap, maybe some new issues are going to be common. 

Tuuli: Nothing to add to the previous, no publication date available yet for the Statistics Finland Oskari installation.

Tomi: Version upgrades and small improvements (visual fixes) coming up in HSY. There are many projects in HSY using OSkari and RPC use is growing this year. HSY is working with Sitowise to achieve these. Many small improvements are still waiting for the right project. Some of the ideas could be also valuable for the Oskari community. ==> We need a process to get those ideas to GitHub. Timo will talk to HSY people about this.

Sami: New Jetty 9 servers are installed. New version of the RPC client just came up. It has a helper console for react-based apps. Document can be found from the RPC repo. We are now testing how to create Vector tiles from WFS (big development effort). Transport app, possibility to connect to a complex WFS - selling point for Oskari. Demosite were you can test complex WFS and vector tiles: https://demo-kartta.paikkatietoikkuna.fi/?uuid=1e03a73e-a50e-41fd-b3c0-9bd5b3dafe35 

## PSC members

Jaakko Ruutiainen is willing to drop out from PSC due to change of work place. This was approved.

## New roadmap issues

Improvement of the documentation site https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/82 was approved.

## Other issues

Highlights in 2018:
https://verkosto.oskari.org/en/highlights-in-oskari-community-in-2018/ 
New Thematic maps functionality could be listed also (let’s add this, Sanna has to do an article about it first).

2019 biggest steps for Oskari
- Plans for 3D map engine
- Vector tiles
- My places & user layers merge (possibly)
- More and more react bundles

Just as a reminder, PSC instant chat is in Gitter: https://gitter.im/oskariorg/psc 

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 12.2.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:59
