---
layout: post
title:  "June meeting 2019"
excerpt : ""
date:   2019-04-09 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# June meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- New roadmap items or OIPS

## Opening the meeting at 13:03

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Timo Sallinen

- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen

- Jussi Arpalahti´
- Marko Kauppi
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

WFS 3.0 support was released in 1.52 and available for testing 

- Suomi.fi-maps has done some tests (Timo)
- Next: print layouts with WFS 3

UI-development plan

- Task force gathered to setup project plan for this, they shall continue in August (Sanna)

Translations in Islandic

- Sami has received Islandic transaltiosn and added them to Oskari server, we need UTF8 support for languages
- Hafliði has promised to create a PR about this in GitHub

## New release

1.52 version was released recently and 1.53 comming in August-September


## News from the members

Marko Kuosmanen:
- Content-editor changes ongoing:

Support for multiple properties: edit, fix for geom adding/editing, also server side code refactoring ongoing (remove stringbuilder on feature handling and make use XMLStreamWriter and also new handler for support multiple properties edit). Work will continue maybe later this week. 

This means that WFS side tests have been done on selecting and editing multiple attributes at once. Implementation is done for City of Tampere and HSY. 

PR is comming and Sami requested this in small PR pieces.

- Oliver is also making some tilematrix handling fixes (WMTS issues, new guy at Sitowise)

Timo: 
- New WFS support tested in Suomi.fi-maps, release after summer

Sanna:
- Oskari workshop in FOSS4G Bukarest https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PmIxRFXxixCb5Szb-hGFG-hcojgk4Nm7sUICZOlmnv4/edit#gid=1318666739
- Oskari joins OSGeo Park in GIS-EXPO 2019 (Paikkatietomarkkinat)
- Oskari installation workshop 28.11. with Ubigu & Gispo https://www.oppia.fi/courses/oskari-asennustyopaja-oskari-haltuun/fc0c8e5fc77b700d6b13c5502809982a

Tuuli:
- RPC consulting has been procured and testing period coming up in the fall

Sami: 
- Example doc has been removed, new improved documentation (sample server extension). 
- GitHub template has taken into use https://github.com/oskariorg/sample-server-extension 
- Map layer rights development re-starting
- 3D map motor coming to Oskari from Paikkatietoikkuna during summer-fall
- OSGeo Foundation issues: projects that have been under incubation status have been taken into proper check by OSGeo… New checklist needs to be done by Oskari (and found). 


## New roadmap issues

- https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/109 ⇒ approved
- https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/112 ⇒ approved

## Other issues

- New member proposals to user-list
- More activities into GitHub: all bug-reports to meiling list and GitHub, please use those as primary channels for reporting problems - otherwise nobody will know about them


## Next meeting

Next meeting: 13.8.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:43
