---
layout: post
title:  "February meeting 2019"
excerpt : "Ansible & redhat scripts, news, discussion of layer external info-tool"
date:   2019-01-08 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# February meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- Layer external info url and description-issue
- Oskari workshop and Oskari day

## Opening the meeting at 13:04

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Jussi Arpalahti

- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Marko Kauppi
- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

Improvement of the documentation site was approved: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/82  

Highlights in 2018 and tasks for 2019 were discussed

## News from the members

Sami: 
- WFS3 support, complex feature parsing in development (using NLS-FI name database as example service)
- Bing maps support added (requires an API key for an Oskari instance to use)
- Thematic map legend is being converted from jQuery to React
- New tool for describing Oskari database schema: html-site generated from the database to oskari.org
- Ansible scripts for installing Oskari Jetty 9 can be found in https://github.com/oskariorg/sample-configs/tree/master/ansible/jetty9-install

Jussi:
- Oskari tests with Helsinki historical maps maybe coming up (Helsinki City Archives)
- Metadata: Geonetwork implementation, interface for downloading standard geospatial metadata needed. Work is on-going.
- Helsinki service map being rewritten with React - There could be some co-operation designing/implementing the Openlayers React wrapper as Oskari could possibly use the same component? Meetup/workshop? Jussi can ask and arrange this.

Tuuli: 
- nothing to announce

Timo: 
- bug tests with newest version
- redhat linux rpm package installation model scripts are available if someone has interest (front code, jetty installation, transport and server web app). Jussi is interested, Timo will send the scripts.

Sanna: 
- workshop for Oskari maybe coming up, arranged by Ubigu & Gispo
- Oskari Day TBA, maybe April-May
- Gispo done some tests with Oskari RPC, thanks for the help in Gitter!


## New roadmap issues

Layer external info url and description: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/96 

Issue was discussed and there was some reservations about does this need to be part of Oskari. Also at the same time we should think if Oskari should be driven towards content management system side. It was decided that all PSC members should go through the proposal and it is to be voted after that. Due date for decision is 26th of February.
 

## Other issues

- Gitter has been active, which is nice! Rocketchat PSC channel has been removed permanently in favor of Gitter.
- Java 11 support - pull requests are now compiled with 3 JDKs: Oracle 8, OpenJDK 8 and Oracle 11
- Code analysis tool: spot bugs added to Oskari https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-server/pull/320, but not yet used on PRs

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 12.3.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:50
