---
layout: post
title:  "November meeting 2019"
excerpt : ""
date:   2019-11-11 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# November meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- 3D & Oskari
- Layer list enhancement
- WFS backend tests

## Opening the meeting at 13:04

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Oskari Rintamäki
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa

- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Marko Kauppi
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Marko Kuosmanen

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

- Oskari Rintamäki a new PSC member
- FOSS4G 2019 news and news from the members
- 1.53 coming up (now released), 1.54 coming soon:
- new layer list coming, release maybe next week, check the new layer list functionality from: https://demo-kartta.paikkatietoikkuna.fi/. It started from Admin side improvements, but it was decided to go ahead first with combining the layer list and selected layers. If somebody wants to add hierarchy to the layers, they could develop this further. Also if old hierarchical layer functionality needs the admin side functions, they could attach the new admin tools to the existing layer listing. 
Mobile tracking improvement coming up, now new possibilities for showing location of users in published maps
- Transport code available, but not tested
- New WFS backend, strong request to use the new one

## 3D needs

3D needs was discussed and no acute needs for 3D showed up by the members of PSC. 3D needs should be furhter discussed with Oskari users.

Cesium provides the 3D possiblities in Oskari and thus it can do things supported in Cesium. 

Own 3D datasets could be a possibility to add to the tool. 

3D module is coming to the next release. 

## WFS backend tests

- Some bug reports from customers about My data, but this has to be checked
- Interface with arc/surface, data with multigeometry had some issues
- Testing still needed

## Other issues

- GIS Expo in Finland 18.-19.11.2019, see you at the Oskari stand
- UI development scheme coming up
- Mobile version for Paikkatietoikkuna under development, own geoportal view for mobile use

## New roadmap issues

- No new features

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 10.12.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:45
