---
layout: post
title:  "March meeting 2019"
excerpt : "Oskari community day, React, styling libraries, GeoNode comparison, news"
date:   2019-03-12 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# March meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- Styling libraries tests
- Oskari community day

## Opening the meeting at 13:04

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Marko Kauppi
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

Layer external info url and description: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-docs/issues/96

- Comments have been made to the issue by PSC members, but implementation is at the moment postponed and issue is closed for now

Rocketchat PSC channel is no longer in use, use Gitter only

## Oskari Community Day 25.4.2019 in Helsinki

Remember to sign up: https://www.meetup.com/Oskari-Your-geospatial-friend/events/259264054/. 

Morning session is about Oskari use cases and on the afternoon there will be a mini hackfest were you can ask things from the developers or do bug fixes and other contributing actions. 

## News from the members

Jussi: 
- Oskari Dockerization progressing, scripts available in https://github.com/jussiarpalahti/oskariexp - some finance issues to be tackled

Sami: 
- Map layer admin with React is being implemented. Starting out by wrapping https://ant.design/ components as Oskari UI components.
- Some coding guidelines are being tested out: 
-- named instead of default exports
-- common convention for hiding elements from the UI
-- lots more files in React implementation: how to structure the files in folders so things can be found easily.
-- Context to be used as a way to share localization and services throughout React composition
-- service classes to possibly have getMutator() type of function that is handed to the context so instead of getters the data is passed through component props.
- Documentation has been improved and structure of the pages is being enhanced by creating better request descriptions and navigation. Bundle documentation is to be tied more tightly to functionalities.
- Also new bundle architecture is being implemented, take a look at  http://oskari.org/guides/modern-bundle  
- Styling libraries are being tested at the moment in NLS-Fi. Component level styles to be renewed due to changing to use React. Currently trying out https://www.styled-components.com/ for component level styling. The majority of styles are still processed from SCSS files. When most things are in React we will think about using something else to get rid of Python dependency. Less, Stylus, etc. libraries are being checked by NLS-FI. Tests are conducted first and then OIP for the common guidelines when we have more experience what to recommend.

Marko Kuosmanen: 
- HSY Oskari service has been updated with Jetty & Oskari 1.50

Marko Kauppi: 
- Tampere has a new authentication setup for Oskari (replacing the old SAML one) and tests are being made at the moment
- New download service is being created in Tampere - at the moment it is for Tampere use but could become a community bundle. It will have an Admin UI to help the adminstrators of the service. It will allow linking downloadable files for vector features, because e.g. drone images are still in file system and the amount of files is growing all the time. Download service will have a new UI for end users also.

Sanna: 
- Gispo & Ubigu will be holding an Oskari training on 24.4.2019 at Helsinki (configuring Oskari setup from clean installation). Docker image was discussed for the training purpose. More info coming up soon.
- Sanna wanted to know is GeoNode a challenger for Oskari? GeoNode is being used in large multinational organisations and been integrated with QGIS also, so usage is probably growing. It was discussed that we could do an article on the differences between Oskari and GeoNode. Oskari is a map service which can produce new map services. GeoNode is a content management system. So they have slightly different approaches. Also GeoNode stores the GIS information in itself and probably needs to support QGIS because of this. Oskari on the other hand builds on distributed spatial data infrastructure and doesn't really store the GIS information on itself. It was also seen crucial for gaining more users that companies would take Oskari as a tool and market it also globally.

## New roadmap issues

- no new issues 

## Other issues

- no other issues


## Next meeting

Next meeting: 9.4.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:56
