---
layout: post
title:  "September meeting 2019"
excerpt : ""
date:   2019-08-12 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# September meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- New PSC member
- News from the members
- FOSS4G 2019 conference news

## Opening the meeting at 13:07

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Marko Kauppi

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

- Suomi.fi-maps spreads toward municipalities in Finland
- FOSS4G workshop preparations
- Community page migration on the way

## New PSC member

- Oskari Rintamäki was elected to be the new PSC member

## FOSS4G 2019 Conference news

- Oskari was presented in a workshop, very clear instructions to set up published map and tailor it with RPC. Wishlist from the audience: setup package for Oskari (.war?)
- Timo Aarnio and Sami had their presentation
- Oskari was presented in the OSGeo AGM by Sanna (one slide, very quick appearance)

## News from the members

Sami:
- We have moved forward with the permission handling oip implementation
- Release plans posted last week (1.53 coming in a few weeks ~20.9., 1.54 at the end of October). 
- Feedback needed! 
- On 1.53 we will have an automatic migration to the new system but you can still opt-out of it. 
- On 1.54 we will "force" everyone to switch from transport to the new system and there's probably something that still doesn't work (like the content-editor maybe?)
- For 1.53 features include things like: the new WFS-system (improved from 1.52 where it was already possible to try it)
sample app has been MOVED and improved from oskari-server to sample-server-extension repository (that is replacing the current oskari-server-extension-template repository) ⇒ this is something we want to push and make people use it
- For 1.54 features we are targeting to have: the 3D-mapmodule that we've developed on demo-kartta.paikkatietoikkuna.fi to be included in official Oskari codebase
rewrite for the map layer listing/admin tools based on React (layer list similar as the hierarchical layer listing, but admin side is changed more)

Marko Kuosmanen: 
- New use case / feature coming: In mobile users can track location (first zoom & set current location map), show point when you moving. Maybe need to be configurable in MyLocationPlugin? Also how user can stop tracking, maybe clicking icon (in this way icon toggle tracking / not tracking)? Maybe this needs also desktop mode configuration? Marko adds this to github, some questions still
- Traficom: new Oskari setup coming soon

Tuuli: 
- Version update in Statistics Finland’s Oskari Beta Service is planned to be in October. https://tilastokeskusoskari.sitowise.com/

Sanna:
- Oskari tour coming to Finland, test for workshop material with RPC: https://codepen.io/sannajokela/project/full/ZLxOpQ

Jussi: 
- Nothing from Helsinki

Haflidi:
- Focusing on installation of new version. Gave up migrating old layers from database. Now going well, no problems at the moment, old bugs are gone, which is good. Bing maps now in use, styling is odd.
- Question: How to add OSM if you are not using default setup? Sami: sample from demo.oskari is from Maptiler, but they might have some limitations for use
- Some translations and then release: https://ggn01.lmi.is/ (sign in needed)


## New roadmap issues

- No new features

## Other issues

- Mapstore vs. Oskari, very similar features - cooperation maybe possible, javascript modules and react, needs GeoServer to function (end user interface for GeoServer)


## Next meeting

Next meeting: 10.9.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:41
