---
layout: post
title:  "May meeting 2019"
excerpt : "WFS 3 client, UI development, translations to Islandic, migration for WFS platform"
date:   2019-04-09 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# May meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- Oskari UI development
- WFS 3 platform

## Opening the meeting at 13:05

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Marko Kauppi
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Timo Sallinen

- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Jussi Arpalahti´

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

Red-hat packages scripts available if somebody needs them (Timo)

Docker-image experiments (Jussi not present).

Support for WFS 3.0 - still ongoing work, support coming to new tool (Sami).

Oskari Community Day went well - nice to see everybody and we planned ideas for new UI for Oskari (Sanna).

## News from the members

Marko Kuosmanen:
- SeutuMaisa (following and management of regional landmasses in Helsinki region) development for HSY is ongoing.

Timo: 
- Suomi.fi-maps: We are currently in process for testing next version of Oskari, WFS 3.0 platform tests.

Sanna:
- Documentation on Admin-side coming up.

Hafliði: 
- Transalation to Islandic ready, public version merge possible
- The problem with metadata discussed last time is no longer valid, there are still some issues with thumbnails coming from Geonetwork which Oskari can not read properly somehow. The issue was asked to be reported.
- Hafliði was asked to write a blog post about their Oskari setup with Sanna. Sanna will ask some questions and draft the blog post.

Marko Kauppi:
- City of Tampere has migrated to newest Oskari version
- Download service coming up
- Oskari installation workshop was held in April and it went very well, maybe new session in Autumn 2019

Sami: 
- New release 1.52 coming up in  near future
- New WFS 3 platform has still some issues and those are tested currently. 1.53 version has the ability to enable new WFS platform, but if you don't want to use it you can skip it. In 1.54 it will be  a forced migration. It provides vectors to browser and enables hovering over features (vector tiles or geojson) and has a new switch in the admin side
- Thematic map adaptor for UN statistics coming up, it will be used in demo.oskari.org site also

## New roadmap issues

- Migration to the new backend should be described (Sami)

## UI development plan

In Oskari Community day a scheme for developing Oskari UI was drafted https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OnZCWQvEljtWZYm-4gWMkO4OpZviFp_Gx6ZeEMYM5r8/edit. It is still very preliminary and needs work. The idea is to bring Oskari to the 2020s in both appearance and functionalities. These issues have to be taken into account:

- Descriptions for paths to different functionalities
- How long the old UI will be maintained?
- Do we have parallel UIs at the same time?
- Different use cases have to be taken into account
- We might also have different device needs in the future - how to accomodate those needs?
- We might have different UIs on top of Oskari (RPC), what do we need to develop in order to enhance these needs

We have to discuss this more at Joint Development Forum and in next PSC meetings and have a session with the developers to come up with a good quality plan. Planning and fund raising is done during 2019, actual development could start in 2020. 

## Other issues

- No other issues

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 11.6.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:55
