---
layout: post
title:  "April meeting 2019"
excerpt : "Oskari community day, Oskari dockerization, WFS 3 client, news"
date:   2019-04-09 13:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
---

# April meeting 2019

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Last meetings topics
- News from the members
- Demo-datasets for demo.oskari.org
- FOSS4G 2019

## Opening the meeting at 13:04

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Jussi Arpalahti´
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:

- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Marko Kauppi

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

Oskari Community Day in Helsinki 25.4. Remember to sign in: https://www.meetup.com/Oskari-Your-geospatial-friend/events/259264054/. 

News: Oskari Dockerization, Map layer admin with React, documentation improved, new download service for Oskari in Tampere

Configuring Oskari setup workshop on 24.4 (in Finnish) https://www.gispo.fi/koulutukset/oskari-haltuun-huhtikuussa/.

GeoNode discussion.


## News from the members

Timo:
-WFS 3.0 support needed for Suomi.fi-maps, test datasets available from NLS-FI, Red-hat package are available in Timos GitHub https://github.com/tsallinen/oskari-server-extension-template/tree/rpm-packaging/packages

Marko Kuosmanen: 
- No news

Jussi: 
- Breakthrough with Docker image creations, managed to create all ansible-tasks. Not yet PR, process needs to be checked still. It went relatively painlessly. Docker image is published in Oskari chat https://github.com/jussiarpalahti/oskariexp & https://hub.docker.com/r/jussiarpalahti/oskari. 
- Helsinki’s Oskari project has not gone forward. 
- Jussi interested in the course, but can’t participate. 

Haflidi: 
- Upgrading Oskari (2016 old version) was a bit of a struggle - so many things have changed (and notes from Slack have gone missing!). 
- Now only some problems with metadata, Islandic texts have to be corrected. 
- Discussion about the configuration of layers, do we need to add all layers by hand? Sami: Maybe it could be done automatically 
- Projection systems are a bit confusing in embedded maps (have to look where the problem is). Documentation was not very good on this… 
- Anyhow, things have gone further with Oskari in the past two years!

Tuuli:
- No news

Sami: 
- Progress on the new WFS-client with 3.0 support and MVT/GeoJSON output. Still working on stuff like styling for frontend and printing. 
- New layer admin with React progressed nicely but is currently on due to the WFS-client being prioritized. 
- Metadata search was broken by the Log4J v2 upgrade and a 1.51.1 hotfix is in the works to fix it.


## New roadmap issues

- no new issues 

## Other issues

Demo.oskari.org - good quality interface examples? If you want to get featured in the demosite, please inform Sanna or Sami on the ingerfaces. E.g. Thematic maps can not be demonstrated now because there is no data
- UN statistics API (worldwide data) & Countries Natural Earth for region set could be used with it

FOSS4G 2019 Bukarest, deadline for workshop / presentations in 14th of April (NLS-FI, Gispo people going)

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 14.5.2019, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3)

## End of meeting: 13:47
