---
layout: post
title:  "Version 2.11"
excerpt : "A new version of Oskari is out! You can now save your own styles on map layers and use them on published maps."
date:   2023-06-20 12:00:00 +0300
categories: [news]
---
# A new version of Oskari is out!

Summer has come in a flash and the much-anticipated summer holidays are just around the corner for many. We are happy to announce that with summer, the latest version of Oskari has now been released! The updated **Oskari 2.11** brings with it many improvements. 

The new Oskari 2.11 makes building web maps and displaying and analyzing geospatial data smoother than ever. Under the hood, the database libraries have also been updated, enabling newer PostgreSQL versions to be used.

**What changes did the new version bring?**

- **Storage of map layer styles.** You are able to save your own styles to the vector layer for later use. Saved custom styles can be found in the My Styles tab and can be used in previously published maps. 
- **More scalable mobile version:** Oskari will switch to mobile view when the screen width or height is less than 650 pixels. In the mobile version, the content of the windows has been modified to be more scalable to the small screen. Windows that are used in desktop mode, fill the entire screen on mobile mode. And for example when searching with the window based UI, in the mobile version, once the user selects a search result, the search window closes, and the search result is displayed on the map. 
- **The search functionality** on published maps has been improved.
- **Saving map layer styles:** users can save their own style on vector layers for later use. Custom styles can also be used on published maps. Custom styles can be found in the My Styles tab.
- **The tool options in the map editor have been redesigned.** For example, selections related to map layers are now grouped in the Map Layers menu. Tools available only through programmatic access are selected from the "Programmatic access (RPC interface)" menu. 
- In addition to the above changes, the latest version of Oskari includes minor updates and improvements, such as changes to maintenance tools, time series, map layer comparison tools, user tool tips, etc. 

You can find out more about the changes on the Oskari.org GitHub site. The latest version is 2.11.0.

Release notes:
 - [oskari-frontend](https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-frontend/blob/master/ReleaseNotes.md#2110)
 - [oskari-server](https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-server/blob/master/ReleaseNotes.md#2110)
 